OADP-4001 Self-Service (#89043)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/oadp-self-service-creating-nab.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/oadp-self-service/oadp-self-service.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="oadp-self-service-creating-nab_{context}"]
= Creating a `NonAdminBackup` CR

As a non-admin user, you can create a `NonAdminBackup` (NAB) CR to back up your application from your authorized namespace. A NAB CR is an {product-title} custom resource that securely facilitates the creation of a `Velero` backup object. The `Velero` backup object reports the status back to the NAB CR that ultimately updates the `status.phase` field.

When you create a NAB CR:

* The initial phase for the CR is `New`. 
* The CR creation request goes to the `NonAdminController` (NAC) for reconciliation and validation. 
* Upon successful validation and creation of the `Velero` backup object, the `status.phase` field of the NAB CR is updated to the next phase, which is, `Created`.

> Following are some important points to take note of, when you create a NAB CR:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following are some important points to take note of when you create a NAB CR:
```

> * The `NonAdminBackup` CR creates the `Velero` backup object in a secure way so that other non-admin users cannot access the CR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The NonAdminBackup CR creates the Velero backup object securely so that other non-admin users cannot access the CR.
```

    metadata: {}
    ttl: 0s
status:
  conditions:
  - lastTransitionTime: "2025-02-11T13:37:33Z"
    message: backup accepted # <2>
    reason: BackupAccepted
    status: "True"
    type: Accepted
  - lastTransitionTime: "2025-02-11T13:37:33Z"
    message: Created Velero Backup object
    reason: BackupScheduled
    status: "True"
    type: Queued
  phase: Created # <3>
  queueInfo:
    estimatedQueuePosition: 0 # <4>
  veleroBackup:
    nacuuid: test-nac-test-nab-6....fc60-1..1e-47c5-a0a9-16...4d51 # <5>
    name: test-nac-test-nab-63...c60-1..e-47c5-a0a9-168...2e4d51 # <6>
    namespace: openshift-adp
    status: # <7>
      completionTimestamp: "2025-02-11T13:37:54Z"
      expiration: "2025-03-13T13:37:33Z"
      formatVersion: 1.1.0
      hookStatus: {}
      phase: Completed # <8>
      progress:
        itemsBackedUp: 50
        totalItems: 50
      startTimestamp: "2025-02-11T13:37:33Z"
      version: 1
----
1. This is the namespace that the `NonAdminController` (NAC) sets on the `Velero` backup object to back up.
2. The NAC has reconciled and validated the NAB CR and has created the `Velero` backup object.
3. The NAB CR is in the `Created` phase.

> 4. This field indicates the queue position of the NAB CR. There can be multiple NAB CRs in process, and each NAB CR is assigned a queue position. When the backup is complete, the queue position is set to 0.

Author: re-worded to make it sound generic b/r object instead of only NAB/NAR.

> 4. This field indicates the queue position of the NAB CR. There can be multiple NAB CRs in process and each NAB CR is assigned a queue position. When the backup is complete, the queue position is set to 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. This field indicates the queue position of the NAB CR. There can be multiple NAB CRs in process, and each NAB CR is assigned a queue position. When the backup is complete, the queue position is set to 0.
```

5. The NAC creates the `Velero` backup object and sets the `nacuuid`.
6. This is the name of the associated `Velero` backup object.
7. This is the status of the `Velero` backup object.

> 8. The `Velero` backup object is in the `Completed` phase and the backup is successful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. The `Velero` backup object is in the `Completed` phase, and the backup is successful.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/oadp-self-service/oadp-self-service-namespace-admin-use-cases.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="oadp-self-service-creating-nab_{context}"]
= Creating a NonAdminBackup CR

> As a namespace admin user, you can create a `NonAdminBackup` (NAB) CR to back up your application from your authorized namespace. A NAB CR is an {product-title} custom resource that securely facilitates the creation of a `Velero` backup object. The `Velero` backup object reports the status back to the NAB CR that ultimately updates the `status.phase` field.

Author: I am making changes throughout to use `Velero`. thanks.

When you create a NAB CR:

* The initial phase for the CR is `New`. 
* The CR creation request goes to the `NonAdminController` (NAC) for reconciliation and validation. 
* Upon successful validation and creation of the `Velero` backup object, the `status.phase` field of the NAB CR is updated to the next phase, which is, `Created`.

The following are some important points to take note of when you create a NAB CR:

* The `NonAdminBackup` CR creates the `Velero` backup object securely so that other namespace admin users cannot access the CR.
* As a namespace admin user, you can only specify your authorized namespace in the NAB CR. You get an error when you specify a namespace you are not authorized to use.

.Prerequisites

* You are logged in to the cluster as a namespace admin user.
* The cluster administrator has installed the {oadp-short} Operator.
* The cluster administrator has configured the `DataProtectionApplication` (DPA) to enable {oadp-short} Self-Service.
* The cluster administrator has created a namespace for you and has authorized you to operate from that namespace.

> * Optionally, you can create and use a `NonAdminBackupStorageLocation` (NABSL) CR to store the backup data. If you do not use a NABSL CR, then the backup is stored in the default backup storage location configured in the DPA.

Reviewer 2: See the ISG on Optional and conditional steps: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=format-procedures#indicating-optional-and-conditional-steps

That said, it doesn't really make sense that to have an optional prereq. I would find another way to describe this environment constraint.

Author: This is a valid requirement for the user to be aware of. Only that it is not needed per se. I have formated the pre-req as mentioned in the ISG.

I have also reviewed to see if this f/f applies elsewhere and have done corrections accordingly.

.Procedure

. To create a `NonAdminBackup` CR, create a YAML manifest file with the following configuration:
+

> .Example `NonAdminBackup`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Example `NonAdminBackup` CR
```
See https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#api-object-formatting

All specific API object references (ie, anything in backticks) must be followed by a noun. This comment applies throughout the doc.

Author: Done everywhere.

As a non-admin user, you can create a `NonAdminBackup` (NAB) CR to back up your application from your authorized namespace. A NAB CR is an {product-title} custom resource that securely facilitates the creation of a `Velero` backup object. The `Velero` backup object reports the status back to the NAB CR that ultimately updates the `status.phase` field.

When you create a NAB CR:

* The initial phase for the CR is `New`. 
* The CR creation request goes to the `NonAdminController` (NAC) for reconciliation and validation. 
* Upon successful validation and creation of the `Velero` backup object, the `status.phase` field of the NAB CR is updated to the next phase, which is, `Created`.

The following are some important points to take note of when you create a NAB CR:

* The `NonAdminBackup` CR creates the `Velero` backup object securely so that other non-admin users cannot access the CR.
* As a non-admin user, you can only specify your authorized namespace in the NAB CR. You get an error when you specify a namespace you are not authorized to use.

.Prerequisites

* You are logged in to the cluster as a non-admin user.
* The cluster administrator has installed the {oadp-short} Operator.

> * The cluster administrator has configured the `DataProtectionApplication` (DPA) to enable {oadp-short} Self-Service.

Author: We can't add an example in the pre-req section, but I will try to link the admin doc section to enable self-service.

> * The cluster administrator has configured the `DataProtectionApplication` (DPA) to enable {oadp-short} Self-Service.

Reviewer 3: @mpryc NO.. let's leave admin specific info OUT of the user facing doc  please :)

* The cluster administrator has created a namespace for you and has authorized you to operate from that namespace.

> * You have installed an application in your authorized namespace.

Author: as it is ambigous and not a pre-req, I have removed it.

* You have created a `NonAdminBackupStorageLocation` (NABSL) CR to store the backup data.

.Procedure

. To create a `NonAdminBackup` CR, create a YAML manifest file with the following configuration:
+
.Example `NonAdminBackup`
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: oadp.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: NonAdminBackup
metadata:
  name: test-nab # <1>
spec:
  backupSpec:

>     includedNamespaces:

Author: removed.
